##Weird Javascripty things: The case for ID's(title)

#Backstory

So a few weeks ago, I was on the front-end channel of one of D.C.'s many active slack tech accounts and someone asked a question about CSS. Though I'm not completely clear on what the issue was, she seemed to be trying to overide a nested class with another class she had created for specific use in certain events. Eventually, it was suggested that she use an id followed by "!important" next to the value if the ID by itself didn't work. While some commenters agreed with the solution, others thought that it was bad practice to use either of the solutions since ID's themselves had largely fallen out of favor within the CSS community due to their high specificity and inability to be reused (in reality, you actually can use ID's repeatedly for styling without any immediate repurcussions, but it's greatly discouraged). This was where I had to start questioning the general consensus, especially when it came to the posters specific issue. Although, like many, I had heard this same advice over and over when it came to styling elements and structuring code, I quickly realized when I began using vanilla javascript, that it was a little more complicated than that. 

#The Mechanics of it All

When it comes to javascript, you can't use ID's and classes interchangibly, the way you can in CSS because they behave differently. They behave differently because elements are stored in different ways. Generally speaking, ID's are stored as independent variables and classes are stored as objects. This is true even if a class is only used once and can be seen by logging an ID or a class to the console after creating it. 

The code below is a basic html page with a heading, two paragraphs and some list items. Both the styling and the scripting are done internally (in the page) for testing purposes. 

![Code snippet A]
(images/c_v_i_2.png)

There is an ID attached to the first element, and there is a class attached to the second and 
both of the styling elements are pulled from the dom and logged to the console in javascript.

The actual semi-expanded results of the information available in the console look like this:

![Console example]
(images/c_v_i.png)

Line 35 is the logged ID and Line 38 is the logged class. As you can see, the exact tags, come up 
in the console when you log the ID, however the class logs in object form.

If these wern't elements that eventually need to be manipulated, then how they are logged and 
read by the DOM would be immaterial. However, if you are trying to create a more than static 
website, something that users can actually interact with through more than links, you're going 
to need Javascript. Assuming you are, it's pretty much guaranteed that at some point, you will 
have to attach a method to an element to make it do something. If you are using an ID, this is 
easy:

Below is a button that makes an alert pop-up when clicked:

[Screenshot 1]
(images/c_v_i_3.png)

This result is generated by attaching an onclick function to the button via an id.

[Code snippet B]
(images/c_v_i_4.png)

This works just fine. But if you turn all references to id's (in the styles, html and javascript) 
into classes, javascript fails silently. Failing silently is javascript speak for when something 
doesn't work but no error pops up. However, there is a way to fix it. In fact, there are several 
ways to fix it. Here's one:

[Code snippet C]
(images/c_v_i_5.png)

What I essentially did was take the original onclick function and place it in a "for" loop so that the onclick method would be added to each of the buttons on the page(this is why an "[i]" was added to the button object before the onclick method was attached). I then wrapped it in another function called add_alert and ran the function. Voila, the button now works the way it originally did. The issue is that I had to do more work to get it to run because javascript assumed that the one instance of the class used in the page was the first of many and immediately put into an object, even though it wasn't used again anywhere in the page. 


#The Point

This is why sometimes, it's better to use an id instead of a class. It keeps you from having to do a lot of tedious work in order to manipulate single objects. You would run into similar issues if you tried to use an id multiple times and then attempted to add a method to any objects with the id. You also likely can avoid some of these issues with the right library (Jquery) or framework. However, sometimes these tools are either not available or not worth the load they would put on the browser forcing you to fall back on regular javascript. Because of this it's probably better to agree that id's should be used for single objects and classes should be used for objects that are going to be used multiple times rather than creating a blanket rule to avoid all id's. Just a few thoughts.








